HACKING
=======

This document incompletely covers areas of interest in the design, testing, limitations, coding style of FIXSimple.


Design
------

The FIXSimple Acceptor application looks like this

Acceptor -> ServerSocket.accept()
 |
 v
 Executor
  |
  v
  AcceptorSimpleClientHandler.call()
   |
   v
   .handleState()

handleState() implements a trivial state machine to respond as
required to the incoming messages from Initiators.

The lower-level incoming and outgoing queues are managed by
FIXEndpoint, which AcceptorSimpleClientHandler extends:

FIXEndpoint -----> .deliver() --> BlockingQueue --> FIXStream
         ^                                            |
         `-------- .receive() <-- BlockingQueue <----/


Finally, at one of the lowest levels, FIXStream uses two helper
Callable implementors to manage the from- and to- "the wire"
converters:

FIXStream ----<composes>----
  |                          \
  |  BlockingQueue --> FIXStreamOutputHandler --> Writer
  |                                                 |
<composes>                                          |
  |                                                 |- Socket -- Internet
  `--------------------------                       |
                             \                      |
     BlockingQueue <-- FIXStreamInputHandler  <-- Reader


Testing
-------

Besides running the code, an example test case is included in the
test/com/martindengler/proj/FIXSimple/FIXMessageTest.java source file.


Business Analysis
-----------------

I attempted to make a state transition diagram in dot (included,
incomplete: specs/statetransitions.dot) to document and drive my
simple state machine.  I started with the FIXT 1.1 spec's appendix,
which is truly appalling for that sort of thing.  I gave of in the
interests of being able to write some code, but the diagram deserves
to be finished.

The FIX 4.2 documentation is slightly better, in that it hints at an
adjacancy-matrix representation of a state machine related to New
Order Single Messages.  However, this is only a teasing illusion of
consistency, and no such state transition diagram exists.  In a
vendor-hungry world, such documentation increases no-one's margins.
Implementors and certifiers would do well to champion such efforts,
however, as the benefits to the client are manifest.



Performance Testing
-------------------

Due to time limitations only basic _visualvm_, -Xprof, and -Xshowgc
tools were used in an ad-hoc fashion with simple shell scripts
(stress*.sh) to observe the performance behaviour.  Minor fixups were
done.  Future directions include:

 - multiple-machine load simulations
 - oprofile usage
 - tweak Acceptor.ThreadPool parameteres
 - tune JVM heap size parameters (limitation of 32 JVMs on 4GB machine
   was noticed, but this should be higher)
 - tune open files / resource limits: core_pipe_limit overruns were
   noted
 - consider architectural changes like spawing multiple JVMs
   ahead-of-time to handle many clients


Limitations
-----------

There are many limitations of the architecture.  Most fundamentally,
the client and server are single-process.  A re-architecture to a
multi-process client, and its associated changes, would lead to a more
graceful degradation of performance as load was spread out over
multiple server processes.  The complexity of actually managing the
incoming order flow would have to be addressed, perhaps by adding a
layer of concentrators "behind" the Acceptor servers.  The
concentrators would hand off messages to exchange fateways and manage
inventory.  Especially for inventory management the concentrators
could actually be more distributed than the Acceptors to handle the
increased calculation load (whereas the Acceptors are filehandle /
network port constrained).

In particular, here are some limitations and future work

- FUTURE: automate enum creation process - 4.2-spec enum classes were
  hand generated using emacs macros; to reduce errors and improve
  maintainability this should be changed to generate code from
  FIXWiki, thus improving the documentation for the community as well

- TODO: many obvious inefficiences remain (for example, string copying
  is profligate) - a full catalog and profiling review will be
  beneficial

- TODO: automated profiling to establish baselines will enable
  performance improvement tracking over time

- TODO: sanity check design vs. quickfix/j: a competitive review of
  style and architecture of QuickFix/J could be done to highlight
  areas of improvement

- TODO: write tests - due to lack of time only an example set of tests
  were produced, but automated test suites usint JUnit 4 or TestNG
  should be constructed

- TODO: IDEA IDE launcher - simple shell scripts were delivered
  instead of the requested IDE launchers



Coding Style
------------

I have attempted to follow the Sun Java Coding standards from
[http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/documentation/index-137868.html#styleguide]
.  Compliance is very spotty due to my enthusiasm for getting the code
done.

In particular, these areas require review:

- TODO: document type-safety of FIXMessage getters & setters and
  future directions (e.g., consider a typesafe message.getOrdCapacity)

- TODO: a review of the Best Practices at
  [http://www.odi.ch/prog/design/newbies.php#10] and
  [http://zguide.zeromq.org/page:all#Why-We-Needed-MQ] suggests many
  architectural directions

- TODO: ensure getters are consistently named; getFoo() or foo() - the
  java libraries, even "newer" ones such as java.util.concurrent and
  enums, are inconsistent about prefering "getFoo()" vs. "foo()" for
  getters.  We should be as consistent as reasonable in the code.

- TODO: putM -> put : due to an oversight only noticed when doing
  documentation, an intended override of "TreeMap.put" in FIXMessage
  was not done, and the method overloads named "putM" were left in the
  code.  This should be removed.

- TODO: ensure use of int vs Integer is sensible and consistent

- TODO: ensure System.err.println/format calls are removed where
  appropriate; a proper logging framework may be judiciously used

- TODO: normalise code to 80 char line length - inconsistencies were
  noted in the final code review


